object oriented features:
class
object
encapsulation
abstraction
inheritance
polymorphisnm
message passing

on the base of above features the are two different types of programming languages

object oriented programming languge  :with inheritance feature
object based programming language   :without inheritance fearure

class:
  A class is a group of elements having similar properties and beahaviour.

object:
 Object is an individuaval element among the group of elements having physical identity,physical proreties and physical behaviour

encapsulation:

Encapsulation is a process of binding data and coding part as single unit.

Abstraction:
  The process of visualizing necessary implementaion or elements and the process of hiding unnecessary elements or implementaion part is called Abstraction.


inheritance:

the process of getting methods and varibles from one class to another class


polymorphism:

poly means many,morphism means structures

if onr thing is existed more than one form is called polymorphism.

message passing :

the process of bypassing the data along with the flow of execution from one instruction to another instruction is called messagepassing.

containers in java:

three types

class
interface
abstract

class:
if we have to use classes in java applications 

Declare class by using class key word
declare entity data in the form of variables.
declare entity behaviours in the form of methods.
in main class,in main method,create an object and refrence variables
access the members of the class by using refrence variable.



how to create packages and what is best way to give name

what is main method will do?

 the purpose main() method in java appalication is:
To manage application logic in java applications.
To define starting point and ending point for the application execution.

creating property/data members :

what is data type and different data types`?

java is strictly a typed programming language. 
where in java applications before going to represent the data first we have to decide which type of data we are representing.
to decide the type of data which we are representing we have to use data types.
in java applications data types are able to provide following advantages:
we can identify memory sizes for the data to store
we can identify the range of values which we want to assign the varibles


datatypes:
primitive /primary data types
user defined /secondary data types

primitive or primary data types:
numeric data types
non numberic dat types


numeric data types:
interger data types:byte-1,short-2,int-4,long-8
non integer data types:Float-4,Double-8

non-numeric datatypes:char-2,boolean-1 bit

user defined or secondary data types:

What is variable?
creating method with void 
creating variable, we can create variables inside method
creating method with return data type, int/string/double/float/date etc
method that will return hard coded value
Create default/paramterzied constructors (overloaded constructor)
method that will return property value
creating method with return data type and parameter
creating static property: 
creating static method
create static block
creating object
